Cool, rendering modes.
So we're gonna talk a little bit,
now do you know what those functions are.
We're gonna talk a little bit
about what they actually do.
So, next day as actually looks at the data
fetching and your page components.
Yeah, it's not just looking because
it's gonna call those functions.
It's actually doing that to determine
how it's gonna prepare your page.
So, and because it has
different rendering modes, or
I should say different prerendering modes.
So what is prerendering?
Prerendering is like
an umbrella term meant to say,
we're gonna take this JavaScript,
this react app, and
we're going to render it
before it goes to the browser.
So what does that actually mean?
We're gonna turn it into an HTML
string before it goes to the browser.
That's basically what it means,
it's gonna do that,
it's gonna return into an HTML
string before the browser.
It's not going to execute
any interaction on it.
Like if you got handlers and things like
that, those won't happen, those won't get
affected, you can still do window stuff
inside of those handlers and logic.
But the actual presentation of is going
to be rendered on the server is gonna be
turned into HTML, the CSS HTML.
That's what's gonna be
sent down to the browser.
And that's why server side rendering and
static rendering is so great because that
it's instant, especially you put
that on the CDN and you cache it.
People get to see your page immediately.
But in the past,
that's how we always build websites, but
in the past, okay, cool.
Your website got here fast and
it's great, but now it's not interactive.
So then now you do something
called rehydration.
Which is now you take the client
side version of the app,
which is pretty much an exact copy of
the server side one just not rendered yet.
And with all the other logic.
And you basically, you take over
where the service I left off.
So it's like, yeah, cool,
here's where you left off.
Now I'm gonna go find the root component.
Let's say it's the app root,
the root div and the HTML document.
And I'm gonna bootstrap
this react app here.
And I'm gonna take all these JSON
files that have all the data that was
called on the server.
And I'm gonna pass them into
all the pages that need them.
And boom, now I'm in a client side app.
So you the best of both worlds, you get
that fast rendering from the server.
But then you get that fast routing
from client side routing and
interactivity that you really get
from single page applications.
So it was like the best of both worlds.
So that's kind of the philosophy
of prerendering and
where all that comes from.
So different prerendering modes,
you have static generation.
Static generation is basically,
I'm literally turning these pages.
Everything that they need, the data,
you could take this page as HTML string,
you could throw it on the browser,
and it will work and
look exactly the way that I want it to.
That's static generation.
So again, great for things like docs,
static pages, landing pages,
blogs, anything where
the content is not that dynamic.
It's basically, if you have content
that's not being changed by a user,
you should static generated.
If it's content being changed by a user,
maybe rethink it.
So any non user generated content should
be static generated, in my opinion.
So anything made by you and
your team, static generate it.
And basically the benefits of
that is that it's CDN cacheable.
It's just a string, so
you can throw it in front of a CDN.
It works, it doesn't need a server, it
doesn't need node, it's just a file that
serve from the CDN and it's instant,
so that's static generation.
Then you have server side
rendering which is basically,
it will turn your react component
into a string just not at build time.
It'll do it at runtime when
you request that page.
So if I do a get request to slash notes,
that's gonna go to the node server.
It's gonna render that component
on the server first get the HTML,
send it back to the browser,
and then boom, it's there.
Any subsequent request is gonna be cached.
It's gonna cache it, in this case,
next day as does cache it.
But it still gonna come from the server
versus it being there ahead of time.
So you can't cache these.
This has to be computed at runtime,
this computation here.
There is no caching there.
So the build times are faster.
Absolutely, cuz you're not prerendered
during build, but the runtime costs
might be bigger depending on how long
your computation is to render this page.
If you're doing like a huge database
query, you're doing a MapReduce,
you're doing all this crazy stuff inside
of a server side props, function.
Yeah, it's gonna be crazy.
So you got to think about that.
And then you got client side rendering,
which is what you're normally used to.
You just send back a index, that HTML that
has nothing in it but some script tags,
maybe a link tag, and like a div
with the id on it that says app.
And then JavaScript comes in and
bootstraps that,
that's client side rendering, right.
And then,
the fourth one which is not here,
it's like a combination of
all of these things, right?
So you can pick and
choose how you want all these to work.
And you can really build
a truly hybrid application
using xjs because you can opt in, opt out.
So those are all the different modes.
So by default,
all the pages are prerendered,
every page you make in the pages
folder is prerendered by default.
And that's what that little battery means.
Is like, yeah, we prerender this thing,
it's good to go, and ask whether or
not you asked for a data or not.
It's gonna be prerendered.
So you get all that stuff for free.
And now if you choose get static props,
that's gonna do static generation.
It's in the word, getStaticprops.
It's gonna statically render
this page ahead of time.
So it's cacheable, it can be on the CDN.
If you do get server side props,
it's gonna server side render,
it too is also in the name,
server side props.
So it's gonna render
that stuff on the server.
And then for client side rendering,
you can do server side rendering and
static generation, and
then still also do client side rendering.
Because next doesn't touch the logic
inside your react component.
That's reacting LAN, you're inside of
react, and actually it doesn't care.
It doesn't touch that stuff, so
you can still make a query
inside your react component and
then render some components based off
the results of that query is still works.
So that's how you can like hook
into this page is server rendered.
This page is statically generated.
This page is purely client site.
This page is a combination of static and
client.
This page is a combination of server and
client, like it gets really crazy.
And the way that you do it is depending on
what function you export to fetch data,
that's it, you export a certain function,
you opt into that method.
This is my favorite part of xjs because as
a developer who has having built so many
server side apps and so many different
languages, so many different frameworks.
It's a pain doing it from scratch.
So I really like the fact
that they do this.
And as a developer who has created
server side rendering technologies,
I can appreciate the thought that they
put into making this effortless and
easy to think about,
in my opinion, it's very simple.
So very well done.